I

in 1898, employees of the US. Coast and Geodetic Survey calcu-
lated the geographical center of the United States, restricting
themselves to the American continent without Alaska. The result:
39° 48’ 38” North, 98° 33’ 22” West, a spot located in the wide
open Great Plains, near the town of Lebanon, Kansas.

| always wanted to go to Lebanon. Maybe because the
name is so allusive. To Lebanon, cedar trees and green hills on the
way to the promised land. My mother had a cousin who married
a GI after the Second World War and moved to Kansas. Every
Christmas she sent pictures of herself with her husband and her
son. So Kansas became a symbol for this country where every-
thing was supposed to be bigger and better. Later, when l was living
in NewYork, I kept running into Lebanon, Kansas.Wheneverthe
United States want to find out how they feel, they send reporters
to the center. As if that spot contains the definitive truth about
the country and its people, an oracle amongst the fields of grain.

l remember an article in the National Geographic, about
people who have to drive half an hour by Car to buy vegetables,
about schools closing down and about cities dying. The New York
Times ran a story about a farmer who works from sunup to sun-
down seven days a week, stopping only for church on Sundays. And
all ofthat was on my mind when I finally got there. October 2009.
The sky hovered above the fields like dirty sheets. The wind whis-
tled through caved—in roofs and rattled the boards nailed onto
the windows. Lebanon’s Main Street looked like an old man's teeth.
Rotting ruins with gaps in between. Empty sidewalks, not a soul
in sight until a pickup truck stopped and a man shouted, “Howdy,
what brought you out here?”

From St. Louis through Missouri and on to Kansas,then west
on lnterstate 70, north to Lebanon on the R 181 and finally through
Nebraska and South Dakota in the direction of Mount Rushmore.
That was the plan. A trip to the Great Plains, to the lonely center
of the United States, through the endless monotony of the grass-
lands. My first trip to the Plains took me south through Oklahoma

